[Music]
all right the new lg gram for 2021. this
is a family of laptops that has evolved
quite a bit over the years
like the original algae gram was really
focused almost
laser focused on being as light as
possible at the expense of
performance and a whole bunch of other
things but over the years they've had to
adapt
and kind of reconfigure what the lg
grain was all about
and at this point i feel like it's
gotten to the stage where it's just a
really good
a really good overall product and i feel
like for a lot of people who are looking
for a new device
this is going to be on that short list
so
there's a whole bunch of new features
and stuff they've added this year but i
want to draw your attention to a new
device so they have a new 16-inch model
this year
they've had 14 15 even 17 in the past
but the new one is
the 16 inch and of the bunch this is
probably my favorite it's that
perfect size and weight combination
while still retaining
really good battery life it actually has
the best battery life of the bunch
but we will talk about a few features
they've added so they now all have 16 by
aspect ratio screen so there's just more
vertical real estate it's the same kind
of overall screen
size but you just get more room on the
top and bottom and it's something that a
lot of people appreciate
the only thing it's not great for is if
you're watching shows there's now black
bars on the top and bottom but for
everything else
that extra space is nice and they've
also added
finally usb-c charging and i don't mean
like
optional usbc charging or the capability
of it it's
the only way to charge this device usbc
right into the port
comes with a 65 watt adapter it's
something i've been hoping for
on the lg grams forever and it's strange
to me like on a device like this a
premium device
that's so focused on weight and
portability
to not have usb-c was weird but now you
don't even need to bring
a regular charger you could use in
theory your phone charger
to juice this thing up it's probably my
favorite feature on this year's gram
okay they've also added new cpus so all
three
now run intel's latest tiger lake cpus
and we'll get into performance a little
bit but that's the lineup
the very portable 14 inch model that's
still under a kilogram
the big screened 17 inch model that's
weirdly light like every time i pick
this thing up it
almost doesn't make sense as to how this
thing has such a low weight for such a
big screen
and then lastly the 16 inch model and
all three of these are obviously very
light
and i wouldn't be surprised if some
maybe all of them hold records for like
the lightest laptop in the world
now in terms of the aesthetics they are
slightly different than the previous
years so they're cleaner looking this
year the design lines have this
industrial vibe to it but there's also
this feature on the hinge that when you
open the device it kind of
tucks a portion of the bezel behind
the keyboard deck like the bottom bezel
like the chin
when you open the device it just kind of
goes
below the hinge so visually it's an
illusion right the chin is still there
but
you just can't see it as readily it's a
nice little visual
tweak they've made i think it looks nice
but it keeps the
thin bezel design uniform around the
whole screen
the 14 inch model has a full hd screen
but the
17 and 16 inch models have quad hd
panels
these are really nice looking displays
like they're colorful they're bright
they don't however have a matte finish
they are a glossy panel
which i personally love but everyone's
different on that and they also
don't have touch screens which is
something you often see on glossy panels
like this but
i assume in a move to keep the weight
down and the pricing reasonable
is just a regular screen it's just
glossy so there's also
a webcam up top it's not amazing but
it's usable and i think that's all that
really matters
in this day and age okay let's talk
about the keyboards so
they all look very similar they've
changed from previous models one thing
is they've removed that
orange color accent that they used to
have it's a more minimal looking
keyboard
but this is a nice keyboard i think most
people really enjoy typing on it
they do however type slightly different
from each other it's the strangest thing
i i mean
it's hard to tell right when you're
typing on if i did like a blindfold test
i think
they're actually different the 17-inch
model feels slightly more clicky to me
but
it's probably in my head like it
wouldn't make sense for them to switch
different membranes between the three
different keyboards
that'd be really strange so i'm probably
going crazy
but it does for whatever reason feels
slightly different the touch pads are
bigger this year
one of the issues that people have had
with the grams in the past is having
smaller track pads
but this year it's noticeably bigger as
well as still having that nice
smooth glass surface and a nice click
mechanic
this is a good trackpad i think most
people like it and you can see the
the chin thing i was talking about right
that whole reduced
bezel on the bottom it's a bit of an
illusion but it's pretty cool
okay let's talk about performance so
all three of these are running tiger
lake chips and
in terms of the overall performance i'm
i guess the word i want to use is
content i was gonna use word happy with
it
i'm content so if you compared to last
year's model it's an improvement
but these use chips that have incredible
potential like if you put the same chip
in a laptop that's cooled more
aggressively you can get some really
good performance particularly graphics
performance
but because these are 15 watt variants
they're not as powerful as they could be
and they can't
sustain a high clock speed for extended
periods of time
the way that i look at it is this on the
14 inch model i feel like it gets a pass
when you pop this thing open there's no
more room in there for
anything really right it's a pretty
packed device but
on the 16 and particularly the 17 inch
model
there's room you could totally have
revamped it
or redesigned the fans so that you could
cool this thing better
and if they did if they had cooled this
thing really aggressively
i think that you could have gotten like
good gaming performance out of this chip
like if you look at the motherboards
clearly they're sharing the exact
same main motherboard and thermal system
across all three devices
i'm sure it helps to keep the cost down
and on a 14
and 16 inch model maybe gets a pass but
on the 17 inch model because there's so
much room in there
i can't help but wish that they had put
something to accommodate for
the potential of this chip but
i get it it's the lg gram and they're
focused on weight so you know adding
another fan would have bumped it up by
who knows 150 grams 100 grams and that
would have been unacceptable
to the gram family okay
uh the ports so these have a pretty good
selection of ports so there's the
two usbc on one side with the display
out like hdmi
and then there's two usb-a which on a
device like this like
ultra thin 2021 to have four usb ports
two of them being usb-a
it's not common i like seeing that uh
there's also a micro sd
if that's your jam all right battery
life
the 17 and 16 inch models share the same
battery size they're both 80 watt hours
i got nine and a half hours on the 17 a
little bit more than nine and a half so
i compared it to last year's data
it was slightly longer than last year
also around nine and a half
on the 17-inch model but a little bit
better and i think
i was running the test identically so my
guess is that the chip is slightly more
efficient this year
and on the 16 inch it's actually the
longest running it's just under 10 hours
this is
on my test they make claims of like 10
hours or like
5 000 hours it doesn't matter those are
unrealistic to me
uh but nine and a half on the 17
slightly under 10
on the 16. the 14 inch is the lowest of
the bunch it
has a 72 watt hour bar so it's slightly
smaller but i was consistently getting
nine hours on this thing but
that's just my testing okay so the rest
of the stuff inside you got
two nvme slots on all three of these so
you can have some really fast drives in
there
the ram is sorted on there's 16 gigs and
you can see it up top and the wi-fi card
is also baked on so you want to replace
those or swap them
you cannot the speakers down here sound
okay
like they're slightly different looking
the previous year's model but they sound
very similar
i feel like with the amount of space
that's available in that area you could
put
a ton of speakers so lg if you ever
watch this you should
probably do something by putting just
better or bigger or
more speakers in there to make it like a
really good sound system
you have the space you clearly have the
space so it would be cool
if you did that instead of having these
predictably
mediocre sound systems okay i cannot
understate that's the wrong word
overstate i cannot overstate
the lightness of these things it's just
like they're so
weirdly light it's awesome if you want
portability you want that
ultra light experience these are a
really good choice this year now in
terms of pricing
i don't have pricing on any of this
stuff yet it's relatively early in the
launch cycle but i do remember that last
year
i mean these things go on sale pretty
regularly but i remember the 17-ish
model hitting
i think like 1200 bucks it was crazy to
have that kind of
configuration and this screen size and
this kind of package for that kind of
pricing
so keep an eye out for the sales on
these things okay
that's the lg gram lineup thumbs if you
liked it subs if you loved it
see you guys next time